3
My pull request has been approved, so today I swapped back to the mini project I finished at the start of the week, in order to deploy. The same issues that I just yesterday fixed for my main branch came up while merging. This time I knew how to deal with them, however during merging with the staging repository, my terminal bugged and that ended up with me accidentally deleting one of my configuration files. Unfortunatelly, I had to spend the whole day chasing the bug that cause the issue, and fixing my environment. 


4
Today I finally managed to deploy my mini project. After it went live, I started reading about the D3 library. This is what I will have to use in order to plot the graphs. I also made a plan, on how exactly I am going to tackle the issue. In the past, I have never been the kind of person to spend much time planning ahead and creating goals and mini steps towards a project. However, with the experience I have aquired working here, I feel that without a set plan. Working on big projects feels pointless and tends to be very chaotic. Therefore, I allocated the time to make a simple plan towards the goal. Specifically, I designed the graph on paper, so that i can always know exactly what the final product I am aiming for is. Also, the plan has the following steps:
-import the data in the controller
-grab the data on the view
-learn how to use d3
-plot a graph of random data
-alocate my data to the graph
-make the labels
-clean up and finalise

5
Murrays Chrismas lunch with Pete and David. Very nice team building experience. David is very busy and we dont spend too much time with him in a relaxed out of work environment. Had a great time and great chat.

Spend the rest of the day working on importing the data to the stash.

6
Worked on data importing for graphs

7
Worked on data importing for graphs


10
Workeddata importing for graphs

11
Sanger Day

12
Lab Christmas Lunch at 8 bells
13 
Work from Home
Christmas Lunch at Jamies

14
Data import for graphs


17
ML meeting with Andrew

18
Working on graph

19
Peter 1 to 1 d3 and finished proj
Finished work

20
David suggestions

21
Last day, Andrew data, cripr import to db
