1-10-18

First day back to the office after my holiday. I was welcomed back to the office by the group and afterwards they filled me in with all the details regarding work over the past two weeks. As predicted, and despite my greatest efforts of leaving as many notes as possible, I am finding catching up with my own project rather difficult. After spending 2 hours trying to work out what exactly I was working on before my holiday, Peter informed me that there is a ticket regarding the latest Miseq run. For the rest of the day I focused on that. 



2-10-18

Finished the Miseq_044 run. After such a long time working on my migration project, finishing another project felt rewarding. Again, I tried working on migration again, and I finally managed to work out exactly where I was before the holiday. Even though that is a success, it still does not solve the issue of being unable to find the bug that causes the doughnuts to not highlight properly.



3-10-18

Today, David suggested that a new functionality should be added to LIMS2.He suggested that the way things are right now, we receive data from the scientists, in a format that is not compatible with the sequencing software. Therefore up until now, the programmer in charge of the ticket, had to format the csv the scientists send, and make it compatible. That is not efficient. To avoid this issue David suggested we create a drop-down option that acts like a guide towards the scientist on how to format the CSV file properly themselves. A template CSV, available for downloading will also be part of the new webpage. The project was assigned to me. Being stuck in my original project, getting an actual project should be very helpful to clear my head a little bit before getting back to the migration. Furthermore, it is rewarding to see how much I have grown as an employee. This time, I was able to set up and finish the project without any issues. 



4-10-18

Today I worked on design details regarding the project, along with further testing. This happened working alongside my manager, with whom we have been discussing ways to make the webpage as helpful as possible for the scientists. This project has been a great introduction for me to html, CSS, JavaScript and JSON. It has also been great seeing how much more comfortable I have become with Controller Model view systems. 



5-10-18

Peter went through my code before we could push everything to live. He only had minor stylistic things to suggest. That's great, because it means that my code is solid enough for a professional environment. Obviously I have a long way to go until I get actually good, but I am quite happy with my progress this far. After making the fixes Pete suggested, I went back to working on the migration project.




8-10-18

David suggested that it would be nice to have the PNGs diagrams in LIMS2 stored as coordinates and then draw them live, instead of storing them as raw data in the database. That means that a big part of my migration project needs to be reworked. Sounds interesting to work on this. I am excited to take it up. In the meantime, the specs for the project I finished on Friday have also changed. The new specs require a lot of work on the controller parts. It is also bound to interfere a lot with my migration project, so at some point I will have to work out how to merge the two together.



9-10-18

Working all day on the project. Nice coding day. I have been getting lots of work done today. 



10-10-18

Chasing bugs around all day. I have been enjoying a lot my work this week.



11-10-18

Finished the project today. Even fixed a few bugs that are present in live. That means that my work is going to have an immediate effect on the live web app. I quite happy. I feel so much more comfortable with js too. That should help me a lot with my migration project since the issue currently at hand is on the view side of things. Miseq_044 was ready to be run around 14.00, so I even had time to finish that before going home. 



12-10-18

Dominique, the scientist who requested for the Miseq_044 to be run, visited the office today. Sadly, Peter was off sick today, while David and Jana were on annual leave. I tried my best to understand the issue but my biology is still not on par with the requirements of the job. It felt awful and made me realize how important it is for me to spend time teaching myself biology. I am fairly confident at this point that I would like to pursuit a career on bioinformatics which makes the need to learn biology even bigger. Therefore, I spent the day today looking up books and courses that could assist me with this task. I also had a very interesting conversation with Joel on the subject. He helped me a lot. He suggested a few books and courses and also  suggested that the in his opinion the best route into bioinformatics, would be to get a job on the field right after uni, and a few years down the line, go for a masters, part time, while working. For the remainder of the day, I read 2 chapters from a book called Bioinformatics and Functional Genomics, by Jonathan Pevsner.











15-10-18

I was stressed over the incident with Dominique, but after talking with Peter I realized that there was not much I could have done in this scenario. However, I think that after 4 months, I should have had a stronger understanding of the biology involved and also a better insight of the data I work with. That realization is something I will need to focus on in the future. Try to work harder to get to the level I believe I could be. The whole incident was only good for me in the long term since it made me start putting in extra work again, reading books and doing online courses during my free time.



16-10-18

Today I managed to put in good work on my project. Its very close to being done now. I also found the time to go through a few algorithms and data structures online courses. I studied complexity, big O, bit omega and theta. I thought it was very interesting and I cannot wait to find some downtime to get back into it.



17-10-18

Kept on with my project and studying today. Lately I feel like my productivity has risen a lot.



18-10-18

I have been giving a lot of thought lately to next year. I would really like it if I could get a job as a developer during my final year at uni. Therefore, I talked with David about it and we arranged a meeting for Monday. 



19-10-18

Today I finally managed to finished the min max project I took up. Everything appears to be working fine after testing it. Submitted a pull request on GitHub and I am now waiting for feedback from Peter. After work we went for a drink with the group. This has been a great week for me in terms of productivity. My confidence has been growing a lot.



















22-10-18

While waiting for the code review, I went back and tried to pick up my migration project. As always this is such a challenge. This time I feel more confident about it, since the project I just finished helped me get a better understanding of JavaScript and generally of the view. Also, I met with David and asked him about potential job opportunities for next year. Even though he said that there is nothing at the moment, he told me that he would put me in contact with other people who might be able to help me. I asked him about 



23-10-18

Code review came in. Great feedback received from Peter regarding my code. I have been getting cleaner and I am very pleased with my progress. Still, there were changes to be made to bring my work up to industry standards. 



24-10-18

Finished working on the changes suggested by Pete on the code review, and committed the final version. Now I will have to wait until I can finally merge it to the live web-app. I'm very pleased that I have a finished project, hopefully this is going to be proven helpful for the users. I have gained so much confidence working on this project. Now I feel ready to face my migration project. I think the biggest reason why it has been delayed that much is mainly the fact that I have been afraid to properly tackle it. 



25-10-18

HTP meeting today. Interesting and informative as always. I ve been able to progressively become more and more involved in the meetings. For the rest of the day I went hard on the migration project. It seems so much simpler now with all the added experience I have acquired. 



26-10-18

Miseq run finished. It's an easy process for me run Miseq. I have done it enough times to not have issues doing it. I had to speak with one of the scientists, Gareth, regarding some issues and for the first time I could hold my own in the discussion and be able to help him. Spend the rest of the day working on my migration project.
















29-10-18

I am able to understand the view side of the project so much better. I am capable of identifying bugs that I couldn't in the past. It's so interesting to observe how much my skill set has changed over the past 2 months. Working on the other projects and taking time to reflect upon my own work. 



30-10-18
I am getting very close to making everything works at this point. I know what has been wrong all this time. It was an issue of inputting data in a wrong format and resetting variables that shouldn't be re-set, resulting in faulty/missing data.



31-10-18

All day working on fixing the issues I have identified. I think I can finally see the light at the end of the tunnel. At the same time, it is a bit depressing that I am still not able to get there. This project has been so challenging. I don't think I ever had to work on something that long term in the past. At the very least, it is a great growing experience. 
